I have tried my best to create a "distribution" version of the SOCRATES source
code and all the utilities around it. Everything can be copied from 
acd:/u/simonc/socrates/packages

The file README.txt is the technical description (chapter 6) I wrote for
Theresa's NCAR technical report. It explains the contents of the different
packages (*.tar.gz) in the directory. The most important one is the source
code, socrates.tar.gz . To unpack a package on the ACD IBM:
$> gunzip socrates.tar.gz
$> tar -xlf socrates.tar

From am programming point of view, the code of this new version is much 
cleaner and easier to understand. Improvements include :
- Initial conditions in a standard NetCDF restart file (data/initcond.nc)
  for January, 1 (beginning year of simulation left to user's choice).
  Any restart file providing initial conditions for january 1 or january 2 can
  be renamed to 'initcond.nc' and used as "internal" initial conditions.
- All the old parameterizations for solar heating have been removed. 
  The switching parameters iswave, iniwave, n6 , nplot have been removed.
  Only the newest code, corresponding to their default values, has been kept.
- All comments in the 'main' have been completed and updated. The initialization
  calculations have been extracted from the main to new subroutines.
- Some of the module files have been renamed, to keep a consistent way of naming
  them. The module file 'add.mod.f' has been deleted, and its contents inserted 
  in 'main.mod.f' .

'socrates_data.tar.gz' contains all the data files used by the model, including
the NetCDF initial conditions file (5.3 Mb). It is interesting to replace the
old data directory by this new one because all the old, unnecessary data files
have been removed.
  
As described in the 'README.txt', there is a separate directory 'src/cray' for
the few subroutines specific to Cray machines. The C-shell scripts for Cray
computers have been updated, but not tested - I will do that on the Cray J90 in
Brussels (and multitask the code as well).

There is a serious lack of computing power for ACD users of SOCRATES.
modelling.acd, the IBM used for model calculations, can only be a temporary
solution because it has only one processor and several users are running their
models there, making this machine extremely slow. I support Stacy's opinion of
providing ACD users a DEC alpha compute server.
Here are the compiling and execution CPU-times for the 3 machines I have tried:

		IBM RS/6000		Cray J-90 (paiute)	DEC alpha
		(modelling.acd)		1 processor		433 MHz

Compiling time	    45 mins		30 mins			5 mins

1-yr simulation
execution time	    13 hrs		7.5 hrs			6 hrs



The package 'view2d.tar.gz' is the last version of the IDL application that 
I wrote to analyze the results of the model. This new IDL application will run 
only with SOCRATES version 1.0, the new version distributed in the same
directory. 'view2d' allows many more possibilities than the previous IDL tool,
especially to compare two different netCDF files from two different runs, and to
control the texts and the graphics on the plots. The package contains its own 
'README.txt' file to explain the use of this IDL application.

