Hello Guy, Theresa, Stacy,

Before leaving, I would want to thank you to have helped me putting together a
"final"   ;-) version of the SOCRATES model. The source code is "packed" and
can be copied from
acd:/u/simonc/socrates/packages

There are more explanations on the contents of this directory, and on the 
programming issues involved, in the next e-mail.

The science contained in this version (SOCRATES version 1.0) include all of
Theresa's improvements up to her version 32, excluding the PSC parameterization
(chem_psc.f) which is not ready and still at Theresa's version 29.
All the results that I have compared with measurements look excellent,
but for a few points described below. The biggest improvement certainly
came from applying the vertical diffusion (and boundary conditions) at every
chemical timestep.

Some of the remaining problems with the results:
- PSC parameterization still does not reproduce exactly the observed 
  "ozone hole"
- The HOx family exhibits a big discontinuity at 30km of altitude, although its
  members OH and HO2 do not. Daytime HOx is often smaller than H + OH + HO2 ,
  e.g. at 28km, mid-latitudes. This proves that the new HOx calculation and
  splitting that I wrote last fall is still not OK.
  Surprisingly, the calculated H, OH and HO2 vertical profiles are very close
  to the available measurements, so it is not urgent to fix this HOx problem.
- The [NO] minimum in the upper mesosphere (mid-latitudes) is too low by an 
  order of magnitude. Theresa re-introduced the parameteriztion for NO 
  production by ions, but it has an effect only in the polar regions. I hope to
  look at this more when I am back in Brussels.
  
Although the model is not perfect (what model ever gets perfect ?), I am quite
confident now about using it for sensitivity studies. I plan to use it in
Brussels to:
- study the effect of Lyman-alpha solar line, taking in account the 
  high-resolution spectrums of the O2 cross-section and Lyman-alpha emission.
- study the effect of the 11-year solar cycle on the mesospheric chemistry
- Introduce a parameterization for the Polar Mesospheric Clouds (PMC) and study
  their effect on mesospheric chemistry

I would be happy to keep the version that I will run in Brussels common with 
the version that Theresa is running here. All I need to do that, is that
Theresa switches to this new version, and that she keeps me aware of the
new, tested improvements she brings to the model. With a simple e-mail telling
me where to find the new files, I can ftp them from Brussels if I have the read
permissions to do so. I will obviously do the same on my side.
one I maintain here
